Update tutorial.rst for 0.2.0 (#1391)
popsim-consortium/stdpopsim: docs/tutorial.rst

for which the rationale and method is described in detail in the
`pyslim documentation <https://tskit.dev/pyslim/docs/latest/tutorial.html#recapitation>`__.
The third (and least crucial) step is to *simplify* the tree sequence.

> If as above we ask for 200 haploids from a population whose final size is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If as above we ask for 100 sampled individuals from a population whose final size is
```
The command above has `100`, so saying "200 haploids" is confusing for no reason, I think?

.. code-block:: python

    num_neutral = np.zeros(3, dtype="int")
    num_deleterious = np.zeros(3, dtype="int")
    for site in ts.sites():
        region = np.digitize(site.position, gene_interval.flatten())
        for mut in site.mutations:
            for mut_info in mut.metadata["mutation_list"]:
                if mut_info["selection_coeff"] == 0:

>                     num_neutral[region] += 1

Reviewer: This is not quite right because a neutral mutation that has another mutation stacked on top of it later will be counted twice (that's the point of the `unique_muts` thing). Instead, my proposal would be to do like
```
mut_s = sum([mut_info["selection_coeff"] for mut_info in mut.metadata["mutation_list"]])
if mut_s == 0:
    num_neutral[region] += 1
```
Oh, wait, this doesn't work either, since a neutral mutation placed on top of a non-neutral one wouldn't be counted. Hm...

Author: yeah, you're totally right -- the previous version of this code block collapses SLiM mutation ids that occur across multiple `tskit.Mutation`s. So, we'll need to use/explain the `keep_mutation_ids_as_alleles` argument. It'd be great to end up with something a bit less cumbersome than what was in the previous version.

Author: hm, I probably borked a test back in #1356. It's still valid -- just checking for the presence of non-neutral mutations doesn't require that they're correctly collapsed -- but probably not good to have a misleading example floating around in the tests.

Reviewer: How about
```
mut_s = sum([mut_info["selection_coeff"] for mut_info in mut.metadata["mutation_list"]])
if mut.parent != tskit.NULL:
    parent_mut = ts.mutation(mut.parent)
    parent_s = sum([mut_info["selection_coeff"] for mut_info in parent_mut.metadata["mutation_list"]])
    mut_s -= parent_s
if mut_s == 0:
    num_neutral[region] += 1
```
So, if the net selection coefficient of a mutation is the same as it's parent mutation (if there is one), then it's neutral. This will work in all cases except weird ones that couldn't happen in a stdpopsim simulation.

Author: This seems fine -- but I pushed an example using `keep_mutation_ids_as_alleles` a short while ago that gives the right answer when mutations are stacked, and may be a bit clearer. Do you have a preference? (either seem fine to me)

Reviewer: Ah, sorry, saw it now. I vote to not put `keep_mutation_ids_as_alleles` in the docs, since people will do it, and then get bad VCFs. This solution works and is not too bad, I think?

Author: sure, sounds good to me.

Author: After chatting, we think it'd be a good idea to functionalize this and put it in `ext/selection.py` (i.e. a function that takes a `Mutation` and a `TreeSequence` and returns the selection coefficient).

        region = np.digitize(site.position, gene_interval.flatten())
        for mut in site.mutations:
            for ds, md in zip(mut.derived_state.split(","), mut.metadata["mutation_list"]):
                if ds not in unique_muts:
                    unique_muts[ds] = md["selection_coeff"]
            for mut_info in mut.metadata["mutation_list"]:
                if mut_info["selection_coeff"] == 0:
                    num_neutral[region] += 1
                else:
                    assert unique_muts[ds] == md["selection_coeff"]

>         for s in unique_muts.values():

Reviewer: note that previously we were only summing over `unique_muts`, so we weren't double-counting; if we got the same answer previously it means we don't have any mutations happening to stack.

Author: yup, got it!

        seed=236,
        slim_scaling_factor=10,
        slim_burn_in=10,
        keep_mutation_ids_as_alleles=True,
    )

We'll count up the number of neutral and deleterious mutations in the three regions:

.. code-block:: python

    from collections import defaultdict

    selection_coeffs = [defaultdict(list) for _ in range(3)]
    for site in ts.sites():
        region = np.digitize(site.position, gene_interval.flatten())
        for mut in site.mutations:
            mut_ids = mut.derived_state.split(",")
            for id, md in zip(mut_ids, mut.metadata["mutation_list"]):
                selection_coeffs[region][id] = md["selection_coeff"]

    for region, coeffs in enumerate(selection_coeffs):

>         num_neutral = sum([x == 0 for x in coeffs.values()])

Author: I think this should now work, @petrelharp

.. command-output:: stdpopsim HomSap --help-genetic-maps
    :ellipsis: 20

Let's go with ``HapMapII_GRCh38``.
The next command simulates 2 diploid samples of chromosome 1 from each of the four
populations, and saves the output to a file called ``afr-america-chr1.trees``.
For the purposes of this tutorial, we'll also specify a random seed using the
``-s`` option.
To check that we have set up the simulation correctly, we may first wish to perform a
dry run using the ``-D`` option.
This will print information about the simulation to the terminal:

> .. command-output:: stdpopsim HomSap -c chr1 -o afr-america-chr1.trees -s 13 -g HapMapII_GRCh38 -d AmericanAdmixture_4B11 AFR:2 EUR:2 ASIA:2 ADMIX:2 -D

Reviewer: oh man this sample specification is so much better
